mistral-coreml blogpost (#2231)
huggingface/blog: mistral-coreml.md

user guide [here](https://apple.github.io/coremltools/docs-guides/source/multifunction-models.html).

## Converting Mistral 7B to Core ML

The single most important component for running a large language model
efficiently is the kv-cache. As mentioned above, this is a great
candidate for [the new stateful model feature](https://apple.github.io/coremltools/docs-guides/source/stateful-models.html)
released at WWDC’ 24. Models in the transformers library already use
efficient attention implementations that rely heavily on kv-caching.
However, the default implementations are optimized for Nvidia GPUs, and
this hardware has a different set of constraints than Apple Silicon
does. In the case of Core ML, we need to pre-allocate the full cache
buffer beforehand and ensure that each time we call the model, we update
the buffer in place. This avoids inefficient memory allocations and
tensor concatenations and is also a requirement for Core ML stateful
buffers.

To achieve this goal, we have to use a different attention
implementation that considers these factors. This requires modifying the
transformers modeling code for the Mistral architecture, and it’s done

> in [this fragment of code](https://github.com/huggingface/swift-transformers/blob/preview/Examples/Mistral7B/export.py#L121).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in [this fragment of code](https://github.com/huggingface/swift-transformers/blob/21b015691624ad103470370f0f255eb660579511/Examples/Mistral7B/export.py#L121).
```

input_ids = torch.zeros((1, 2), dtype=torch.int32)
causal_mask = torch.zeros((1, 1, 2, 5), dtype=torch.float32)

traced_model = torch.jit.trace(torch_model, [input_ids, causal_mask])

```

The input to a language model is a sequence of tokens of varying length.
We’ll allow the input to grow from a single token to a maximum context
length of 2048. We can use
[coremltools](https://github.com/apple/coremltools) range
dimensions to specify these bounds.

```python
query_length = ct.RangeDim(lower_bound=1, upper_bound=2048, default=1)
end_step_dim = ct.RangeDim(lower_bound=1, upper_bound=2048, default=1)

inputs = [
    ct.TensorType(shape=(1, query_length), dtype=np.int32, name="inputIds"),
    ct.TensorType(shape=(1, 1, query_length, end_step_dim), dtype=np.float16, name="causalMask"),
]

outputs = [ct.TensorType(dtype=np.float16, name="logits")]

```

In addition to the sequence tokens (called `inputIds` in the example
above), there’s another input called `causalMask`, which specifies the
tokens the model needs to pay attention to. This is mostly used when
generating multiple sequences at the same time using batching. Check out
how these inputs are used in an [example runner

> here](https://github.com/huggingface/swift-transformers/blob/preview/Examples/Mistral7B/generate.py#L29-L42).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
here](https://github.com/huggingface/swift-transformers/blob/21b015691624ad103470370f0f255eb660579511/Examples/Mistral7B/generate.py#L29-L42).
```

with more than 7 billion parameters that pushes the capabilities of
consumer hardware today. You can also check out WWDC’24 [Bring your
machine learning and AI models to Apple
silicon](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2024/10159/)
session, where part of the Mistral 7B conversion process is shown.

Let’s see what steps to take to run it as efficiently as possible, and
learn the new tools available in iOS 18 & macOS Sequoia.

This is what we’ll be building today:

<video controls title="Mistral 7B running with Core ML">
<source src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/mistral-coreml/swift-chat.mp4" type="video/mp4">
Video: Mistral 7B running with Core ML.
</video>

## TL;DR

By the end of this blog post, you will have learnt all the new goodies
accompanying the latest macOS release AND you will have successfully run
a 7B parameter model using less than 4GB of memory on your Mac.

Step 1: Clone the `preview` branch of the `swift-transformers` repo: git clone -b preview [`https://github.com/huggingface/swift-transformers`](https://github.com/huggingface/swift-transformers)

> Step 2: Download the converted Core ML models from [`this Hugging Face repo`](https://huggingface.co/coreml-projects/mistral-coreml)

Author: Isn't it supposed to be https://huggingface.co/apple/mistral-coreml?

Step 3: Run inference using Swift: `swift run transformers "Best recommendations for a place to visit in Paris in August 2024:" --max-length 200 Mistral7B-CoreML/StatefulMistralInstructInt4.mlpackage`

## Best new Core ML features from WWDC’ 24

Here are some of the most impactful Core ML features from WWDC’ 24 we
will use to run Mistral 7B on a Mac.

### Swift Tensor

The first feature we want to highlight is an entirely new Swift type to
work with ML tensors. These are multi-dimensional data structures every
ML framework uses. Python developers working on ML are familiar with
`numpy` arrays or `torch` tensors, which provide convenient,
high-level interfaces to manipulate these large multi-dimensional

> matrices easily. The new ‘MLTensor’ type provides a high-level

Reviewer: ```suggestion
matrices easily. The new `MLTensor` type provides a high-level
```

storage as an opaque pointer to number data. This is time-consuming and
error-prone.

The new `Tensor` type provides a high-level abstraction that mimics
the ones available in Python frameworks, greatly simplifying working
with tensor data in Swift. Consider a language model like the one we
want to port to Core ML. Language models take in an input sequence of
tokens, and they output an estimation of the probabilities of all the
tokens in the vocabulary, meaning that tokens with a high probability
have a high chance of being plausible continuations of the input. The
application’s job is to select the best next token to append to the
sequence based on those probabilities. `Tensor` type makes it easy to
handle these operations without custom code.

[When we released swift-transformers](https://huggingface.co/blog/swift-coreml-llm),
we wrote a lot of code (later extended by the community, thanks! ❤️) to
help with input preparations (convert words to tokens) and output
post-processing. For example, check out [our softmax operation](https://github.com/huggingface/swift-transformers/blob/main/Sources/TensorUtils/Math.swift#L103)

> using Accelerate. All this can be removed when using `MLTensor` as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
using Accelerate. All this can be removed when using `MLTensor`, as
```

user guide [here](https://apple.github.io/coremltools/docs-guides/source/multifunction-models.html).

## Converting Mistral 7B to Core ML

The single most important component for running a large language model
efficiently is the kv-cache. As mentioned above, this is a great
candidate for [the new stateful model feature](https://apple.github.io/coremltools/docs-guides/source/stateful-models.html)
released at WWDC’ 24. Models in the transformers library already use
efficient attention implementations that rely heavily on kv-caching.
However, the default implementations are optimized for Nvidia GPUs, and
this hardware has a different set of constraints than Apple Silicon
does. In the case of Core ML, we need to pre-allocate the full cache
buffer beforehand and ensure that each time we call the model, we update
the buffer in place. This avoids inefficient memory allocations and
tensor concatenations and is also a requirement for Core ML stateful
buffers.

To achieve this goal, we have to use a different attention
implementation that considers these factors. This requires modifying the
transformers modeling code for the Mistral architecture, and it’s done
in [this fragment of

> code](https://github.com/huggingface/swift-transformers-staging/blob/wwdc24/Examples/Mistral7B/modeling.py#L251).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
code](https://github.com/huggingface/swift-transformers/blob/21b015691624ad103470370f0f255eb660579511/Examples/Mistral7B/export.py#L121).
```

Note: If you want to follow along and replicate the conversion (or
convert another Mistral-based model, like a different fine-tune), you
can use [this

> script](https://github.com/huggingface/swift-transformers-staging/blob/wwdc24/Examples/Mistral7B/export.py)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
script](https://github.com/huggingface/swift-transformers/blob/21b015691624ad103470370f0f255eb660579511/Examples/Mistral7B/export.py)
```

to run all the conversion steps.

### Tracing & Conversion

The first step is to load the model. We’ll use the patched
implementation with the in-place cache method.

```python

> from modeling import WrappedWithStateMistralForCausalLM
> MODEL_ID = "mistralai/Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.3"
> torch_model = WrappedWithStateMistralForCausalLM(MODEL_ID)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MODEL_ID = "mistralai/Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.3"
torch_model = StatefulMistralForCausalLM(MODEL_ID)
torch_model.eval()
```

This has changed vs the previous version.

```

Before running Core ML conversion, we need to trace the model with
example inputs. This process records the tensor operations performed on
those inputs, and the traced graph will be translated to Core ML
operations during conversion. We use sample inputs to trace the model;
we don’t need real data.

```python
input_ids = torch.zeros((1, 2), dtype=torch.int32)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

causal_mask = torch.zeros((1, 1, 2, 5), dtype=torch.float32)

> traced_model = torch.jit.trace(torch_model, [input_ids,
> causal_mask])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
traced_model = torch.jit.trace(torch_model, [input_ids, causal_mask])
```

```

The input to a language model is a sequence of tokens of varying length.
We’ll allow the input to grow from a single token to a maximum context
length of 2048. We can use
[coremltools](https://github.com/apple/coremltools) range
dimensions to specify these bounds.

```python

> query_length = ct.RangeDim(lower_bound=1, upper_bound=2048,
> default=1)
> 
> end_step_dim = ct.RangeDim(lower_bound=1, upper_bound=2048,
> default=1)
> 
> inputs = [
> 
> ct.TensorType(shape=(1, query_length), dtype=np.int32,
> name="inputIds"),
> 
> ct.TensorType(shape=(1, 1, query_length, end_step_dim),
> dtype=np.float16, name="causalMask"),
> 
> ]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
query_length = ct.RangeDim(lower_bound=1, upper_bound=2048, default=1)
end_step_dim = ct.RangeDim(lower_bound=1, upper_bound=2048, default=1)

inputs = [
    ct.TensorType(shape=(1, query_length), dtype=np.int32, name="inputIds"),
    ct.TensorType(shape=(1, 1, query_length, end_step_dim), dtype=np.float16, name="causalMask"),
]
```

indentation was wrong, using single lines for now

```

In addition to the sequence tokens (called `inputIds` in the example
above), there’s another input called `causalMask`, which specifies the
tokens the model needs to pay attention to. This is mostly used when
generating multiple sequences at the same time using batching. Check out
how these inputs are used in an [example runner
here](https://github.com/huggingface/swift-transformers-staging/blob/wwdc24/Examples/Mistral7B/generate.py#L29-L42).

In this situation, all the input sequences inside a batch must have the
same length, so we use padding tokens and the causal mask to tell the
model that the padding tokens are not to be considered as inputs.

### State Preparation

The PyTorch modeling code uses `keyCache` and `valueCache` as the
names of the cache buffers to hold the kv-cache. Those blocks are
allocated for the maximum context length (2048). We use `coremltools`'
new
[StateType](https://apple.github.io/coremltools/source/coremltools.converters.mil.input_types.html#statetype)
to specify that those blocks must be converted to a stateful Core ML
buffer during conversion.

```python
# Specify kv-cache states by using `StateType`.

states = [

> ct.StateType(wrapped_type=ct.TensorType(shape=torch_model.kv_cache_shape, dtype=np.float16), name="keyCache"),
> ct.StateType(wrapped_type=ct.TensorType(shape=torch_model.kv_cache_shape, dtype=np.float16), name="valueCache"),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ct.StateType(
        wrapped_type=ct.TensorType(shape=torch_model.kv_cache_shape, dtype=np.float16),
        name="keyCache",
    ),
    ct.StateType(
        wrapped_type=ct.TensorType(shape=torch_model.kv_cache_shape, dtype=np.float16),
        name="valueCache",
    ),
```

]

```

### Core ML Conversion

To convert the model to Core ML, we need to specify the input and output
types, as well as the states. The converted model will use `float16`
precision because that’s what we specified for the input data. We also
need to indicate the minimum deployment target as iOS18, as that’s where
these features are available. (We can also use `macOS15`, which refers
to the same conversion target.)

```python
mlmodel_fp16 = ct.convert(
    traced_model,
    inputs=inputs,
    states=states,
    outputs=outputs,

>     minimum_deployment_target=ct.target.iOS18,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    minimum_deployment_target=ct.target.iOS18,
    skip_model_load=True,
```

)
```

### Model Compression

Using the new block-size quantization strategies described above, we use
4-bit linear quantization with block size 32. This will greatly reduce
model size and make the model run faster. Even though computation will
still be performed in `float16`, weights are transferred in 4-bit mode
and decompressed on the fly, which is more efficient than transferring a
large amount of 16-bit weights.

The quantization parameters are configured as follows:

```python
op_config = ct.optimize.coreml.OpLinearQuantizerConfig(

> mode="linear_symmetric",
> dtype="int4",
> granularity="per_block",
> block_size=32,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    mode="linear_symmetric",
     dtype="int4",
     granularity="per_block",
     block_size=32,
```

)
config = ct.optimize.coreml.OptimizationConfig(global_config=op_config)
```

Let’s use that configuration to quantize the model. The following line
will take a few minutes to run:

```python

> mlmodel_int4 =
> ct.optimize.coreml.linear_quantize_weights(mlmodel_fp16,
> config=config)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
mlmodel_int4 = ct.optimize.coreml.linear_quantize_weights(mlmodel_fp16, config=config)
```

mlmodel_int4.save("StatefulMistral7BInstructInt4.mlpackage")

```

There’s a final step after conversion and quantization are done. We need
to include a piece of additional metadata that indicates the model
identifier we used (`mistralai/Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.3`). The Swift
code will use this to download the tokenizer files from the Hub.
Tokenization is converting text data to the numerical representations
used by models, and it’s different for every model.

```python
mlmodel_int4._spec.description.metadata.userDefined.update({

> "co.huggingface.exporters.name": MODEL_ID

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "co.huggingface.exporters.name": MODEL_ID
```

---
title: "WWDC 24: Running Mistral 7B with Core ML" 
thumbnail: /blog/assets/mistral-coreml/thumbnail.png
authors:
- user: pcuenq
- user: osanseviero
- user: reach-vb
- user: FL33TW00D-HF
---

# WWDC 24: Running Mistral 7B with Core ML

Table of Contents:
1.  What is Core ML? and Why on-device?
2.  What does it take to run a LLM on-device?
3.  What’s new in this release?
4.  How do you convert the Mistral 7B model?
5.  How to run the model?
6.  Benchmarks

> 7.  What next?

Reviewer: This doesn't seem to match the content, I'd just remove it.

> ### What is Core ML? Why on-device?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

I'd also remove this heading so the content is the intro after the post title.

WWDC’ 24 is the moment Apple officially unveiled Apple Intelligence and
reiterated their commitment to efficient, private, and on-device AI.
During the keynote and the sessions that followed, they demonstrated
Apple Intelligence, which powers a huge array of AI-enhanced features
that show practical uses for everyday tasks. These are not
\*AI-for-the-sake-of-AI\* shiny demos. These are time-saving,
appropriate (and fun!) helpers that are deeply integrated with apps and
the OS, that also offer developers a number of ways to include these
features within their own apps.

> Apple Intelligence features can only work this seamlessly and this well
> because of the vertically integrated software stack that truly harnesses
> Apple Silicon's capabilities to the fullest. Apple also offers an
> incredible platform for developers to run models on-device, known as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Apple Intelligence features can only work this well
because of the vertically integrated software stack that harnesses
Apple Silicon's capabilities to the fullest. Apple also offers a platform for developers to run models on-device, known as
```

Trying to make it sound less hyperbolic, feel free to ignore.

Core ML. This software stack allows you to run ML models across all 3

> compute units (CPU, GPU & Neural Engine).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
compute units (CPU, GPU & Neural Engine) available on Apple Silicon hardware.
```

In this blog post, we’ll be exploring some of the best new Core ML
features to replicate the Mistral 7B example Apple showcased in the
WWDC’24 [Deploy machine learning and AI models on-device with Core
ML](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2024/10161/)
session, where they use a fork of
[swift-transformers](https://github.com/huggingface/swift-transformers)
to run a state-of-the-art LLM on a Mac. This is a high-quality model
with more than 7 billion parameters that pushes the capabilities of
consumer hardware today. You can also check out WWDC’24 [Bring your
machine learning and AI models to Apple
silicon](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2024/10159/)
session, where part of the Mistral 7B conversion process is shown.

Let’s see what steps to take to run it as efficiently as possible, and

> learn the new tools available in iOS 18 & MacOS Sequoia.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
learn the new tools available in iOS 18 & macOS Sequoia.
```

This is what we’ll be building today:

> [swift-chat.mp4](https://drive.google.com/file/d/16hKLzG7wHN_FCcmSGNqok4-Mt-LWYkR1/view?usp=sharing)

Reviewer: We need to include something like this (taken from https://huggingface.co/blog/community-datasets

```suggestion
<figure class="image table text-center m-0 w-full">
    <video
        style="max-width: 90%; margin: auto;"
        autoplay loop muted playsinline
        src="https://drive.google.com/file/d/16hKLzG7wHN_FCcmSGNqok4-Mt-LWYkR1/view?usp=sharing"
    ></video>
</figure>
```

(to be tested if it works from google drive, we may need to copy the video file to documentation-images)

## TL;DR

> By the end of this blog post, you would’ve learnt all the new goodies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By the end of this blog post, you will have learnt all the new goodies
```

> accompanying the latest MacOS release AND you will have successfully run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
accompanying the latest macOS release AND you will have successfully run
```

a 7B parameter model using less than 4GB of memory on your Mac.

> Step 1: Clone Github repo: git clone -b preview [`https://github.com/huggingface/swift-transformers`](https://github.com/huggingface/swift-transformers)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Step 1: Clone the `preview` branch of the `swift-transformers` repo: git clone -b preview [`https://github.com/huggingface/swift-transformers`](https://github.com/huggingface/swift-transformers)
```

> Step 2: Clone the HuggingFace repo [`here`](https://huggingface.co/coreml-projects/mistral-coreml)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Step 2:  Download the converted Core ML models from [`this Hugging Face repo`](https://huggingface.co/coreml-projects/mistral-coreml)
```

state data and keeping it on the GPU so you don’t have to send and
receive it every time you use the model.

Stateful buffers were introduced [in this WWDC’ 24 session](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2024/10161/?time=510)
using a toy example that is easy to understand but not representative of
practical uses with big models such as LLMs. An LLM performance trick
for transformers-based models is key-value caching (known as
kv-caching). As shown in the following illustration, it avoids costly
matrix multiplications in the crucial attention block by caching the
result of previous operations performed in previous steps. We won’t go
into details, but the takeaways are: kv-cache dramatically increases
performance, and it requires a large block of memory that is the perfect
candidate for using stateful buffers. Here is a [coremltools user guide](https://apple.github.io/coremltools/docs-guides/source/stateful-models.html)
update about stateful models.

![stateful-buffer](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/mistral-coreml/stateful-buffer.png)

### New Quantization Techniques

> In WWDC 23, we explored a very cool technique called palletization, and
> we showed how it could help bring text-to-image models, such as Stable
> Diffusion, to Macs and iPhones.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In WWDC 23, we explored a very cool technique called palletization, and
we showed how it could help bring text-to-image models, [such as Stable
Diffusion](https://huggingface.co/blog/fast-diffusers-coreml), to Macs and iPhones.
```

user guide [here](https://apple.github.io/coremltools/docs-guides/source/multifunction-models.html).

## Converting Mistral 7B to Core ML

The single most important component for running a large language model
efficiently is the kv-cache. As mentioned above, this is a great
candidate for [the new stateful model feature](https://apple.github.io/coremltools/docs-guides/source/stateful-models.html)
released at WWDC’ 24. Models in the transformers library already use
efficient attention implementations that rely heavily on kv-caching.
However, the default implementations are optimized for Nvidia GPUs, and
this hardware has a different set of constraints than Apple Silicon
does. In the case of Core ML, we need to pre-allocate the full cache
buffer beforehand and ensure that each time we call the model, we update
the buffer in place. This avoids inefficient memory allocations and
tensor concatenations and is also a requirement for Core ML stateful
buffers.

To achieve this goal, we have to use a different attention
implementation that considers these factors. This requires modifying the
transformers modeling code for the Mistral architecture, and it’s done
in [this fragment of

> code](https://github.com/huggingface/swift-transformers-staging/blob/wwdc24/Examples/Mistral7B/modeling.py#L251).

Reviewer: To be replaced with the final URL in `swift-transformers`.

Author: @FL33TW00D do you know which URL?

Reviewer: I'd point to `StatefulMistralForCausalLM`. This should work, but better to use a persistent URL when the PR is open: https://github.com/huggingface/swift-transformers/blob/preview/Examples/Mistral7B/export.py#L121

Note: If you want to follow along and replicate the conversion (or
convert another Mistral-based model, like a different fine-tune), you
can use [this

> script](https://github.com/huggingface/swift-transformers-staging/blob/wwdc24/Examples/Mistral7B/export.py)

Reviewer: URL to be fixed to point to the preview branch in the `swift-transformers` repo.

Author: @FL33TW00D do you know which URL?

to run all the conversion steps.

### Tracing & Conversion

The first step is to load the model. We’ll use the patched
implementation with the in-place cache method.

```python
from modeling import WrappedWithStateMistralForCausalLM
MODEL_ID = "mistralai/Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.3"
torch_model = WrappedWithStateMistralForCausalLM(MODEL_ID)
```

Before running Core ML conversion, we need to trace the model with
example inputs. This process records the tensor operations performed on
those inputs, and the traced graph will be translated to Core ML
operations during conversion. We use sample inputs to trace the model;
we don’t need real data.

```python
input_ids = torch.zeros((1, 2), dtype=torch.int32)

causal_mask = torch.zeros((1, 1, 2, 5), dtype=torch.float32)

> traced_model = torch.jit.trace(torch_model, \[input_ids,
> causal_mask\])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
traced_model = torch.jit.trace(torch_model, [input_ids,
causal_mask])
```

```

The input to a language model is a sequence of tokens of varying length.
We’ll allow the input to grow from a single token to a maximum context
length of 2048. We can use
[coremltools](https://github.com/apple/coremltools) range
dimensions to specify these bounds.

```python
query_length = ct.RangeDim(lower_bound=1, upper_bound=2048,
default=1)

end_step_dim = ct.RangeDim(lower_bound=1, upper_bound=2048,
default=1)

> inputs = \[

Reviewer: ```suggestion
inputs = [
```

ct.TensorType(shape=(1, query_length), dtype=np.int32,
name="inputIds"),

ct.TensorType(shape=(1, 1, query_length, end_step_dim),
dtype=np.float16, name="causalMask"),

> \]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
]
```

outputs = \[ct.TensorType(dtype=np.float16, name="logits")\]

```

In addition to the sequence tokens (called `inputIds` in the example
above), there’s another input called `causalMask`, which specifies the
tokens the model needs to pay attention to. This is mostly used when
generating multiple sequences at the same time using batching. Checkout
how these inputs are used in an [example runner

> here](https://github.com/huggingface/swift-transformers-staging/blob/wwdc24/Examples/Mistral7B/generate.py#L29-L42).

Author: @FL33TW00D do you know which URL?
